will prepare for SQL Server query optimization topics, 
 including indexing, stored procedures, joins, cursors, 
 and temporary tables.
will prepare for microservice architecture and scalable-system questions.
will strengthen his knowledge of Angular, AI, and Azure topics.
will continue improving his Angular skills.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Key Discussion Points:

Technical Background and Agile Experience
Shaikh Saifuddin introduced his full-stack background, including Angular, Node.js, React, REST APIs, Azure DevOps, and related technologies. He described his Agile experience, participation in sprint ceremonies, and informal support for junior developers.

Azure Exposure and Scalable Architecture
The discussion examined Shaikh’s Azure experience and established that it was concentrated on pipelines, deployments, and logs rather than Azure App Services or Functions. Shaikh then described a scalable microservices architecture using suitable databases, API gateways, load balancers, authorization, and automated scaling.

Horizontal and Vertical Scaling
Shaikh explained horizontal scaling as adding application instances and vertical scaling as increasing the capacity of an existing instance. The exchange connected these concepts to handling increased request volumes.

AI Usage and Integration
Shaikh described using GitHub Copilot and Cloud Code for coding suggestions, alternative approaches, and routine automation. He confirmed that an AI-related requirement had started, but API implementation had not yet begun.

Security and Microservices Patterns
The interview covered rate limiting, Shaikh’s microservices experience, and backend technology choices. Shaikh identified the Saga pattern as a way to coordinate communication and transactions among distributed services.

Database Knowledge and SQL Exercise
Shaikh discussed PostgreSQL, basic queries, indexing, and joins. He then worked through an inner-join example and clarified that the join condition belongs in the `ON` clause.

Angular and HTML Concepts
Akhilesh assessed Shaikh’s experience with RxJS observables and Angular input/output decorators. They also discussed the HTML `defer` keyword, including its relationship to DOM readiness and script execution.

SQL Server Query Performance
Akhilesh asked how Shaikh would diagnose and optimize a slow SQL Server query involving multiple joins. The discussion distinguished front-end techniques such as pagination and caching from backend query optimization.

---------------------------------------------------------------
Indexing Notes:  
An index speeds up row lookups (WHERE, JOIN, ORDER BY, GROUP BY columns) at the cost of extra storage and slower writes.

CREATE INDEX idx_department ON employees(department);
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx_email ON employees(email);
CREATE INDEX idx_dept_salary ON employees(department, salary); -- composite, leftmost column matters

Check usage: EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM employees WHERE department = 'Sales';
Drop: DROP INDEX idx_department ON employees; -- MySQL
Drop: DROP INDEX idx_department; -- PostgreSQL/SQLite

Best on high-cardinality columns used often in filters/joins/sorts; avoid over-indexing write-heavy tables.


